This is March 30, 1988. We're in the class of
planning 654. Our guest today is Mr. Leon Wilhite,
a graduate of the Department of Urban and Regional
Planning in May of 1971. Leon was one of our first
graduates and has had one job since he left the
department. He's been in the governor's office in
Austin ever since. and has lived through five
different governor terms, one of which has been
repeated. And I want to familiarize the class a
little bit with state planning and the
possibilities that abound at state level for many
of our graduates and the need for good planners at
the state level. Leon? It's a pleasure to have you
here today, as always, and we're looking forward
to what you can tell us about your longevity in
Austin. Good. I would like to make this as informal
as we can, and I know some of you, one person needs to
leave at 3.30, and if you get really tired of this,
you can raise your hand, and I'll let you go, if
that's all right. Bob was always a tough
taskmaster in school. He was always... But I think
we ought to just consider this an informal
discussion. And if you have questions or you'd
like to make comments about Bob, we'll just go
ahead and say it. He was always a fun professor to be
around because he tells you exactly the way he
feels. I think he encourages other students to do
the same thing. We did. We told him. Didn't we? I do
remember. OK. I handed out a little outline of
discussion. I'd like to whip through this fairly
quickly. Give us a little time to discuss what
you're interested in talking about. Starting
back, let me tell you a couple of things about
myself. I started working in the governor's
office in 1971. Back then, we had a division called
the Division of Planning Coordination. When I
joined that staff, it was known pretty much around
the country as being a policy planning staff, a
fairly progressive policy planning staff. Bob,
of course, dealing with California and other
parts of the country, was much more familiar with
the traditional planning. Come in. Here's a seat
just for you. But the division planning
coordination in the governor's office was a
policy planning office, and we won national
awards during that period of time and was fairly
nationally known. I was really pleased to join
that staff and was excited over the couple of years
there, the first couple of years out of school. It
was a dynamic office. I guess the average age was
around 26 to 28. The director was 32. And so it was a
real fun time. It was a dynamic time, a real
challenge for us all. I'll talk a little bit more
about the governors and the styles. But let's talk
quickly about planning the legislation.
Life didn't begin in 65, but it seemed like in any
kind of planning responsibility, they really
didn't use much terms in state government before
about 1965. And we had a law passed in 65 that
created the ability for local governments to form
regional planning commissions. And that's in
Article 1011M. Most of you have access to Vernon's
here at the school if you have any interest in
looking up these laws, you're welcome to. Let me
just say also, early 70s, we compiled a book. It's
really, they're out of print right now, but this
was the legal basis for planning in Texas. And I
mean, this is a real, it breaks it down
functionally in education, general government,
natural resource. It's a very extensive
document, and anything that relates at all to the
planning, they have it listed in here. So it's
something, I don't know, Bob, if you've ever seen
this or not, have you? I never have. We've been
keeping it secret from Bob. I was wondering if
there's any one body of planning law in Texas. Not
other than what's in here. There's no real body of
single place. This is scattered throughout the
state hall. But if you have interest or want to
research that. I wouldn't be surprised if your
library didn't have this. I can work through Bob if
anyone really thinks that's interesting. I'll
share that with you. But anyway, in 1967 was the
first year that we appropriated law for regional
planning. We created regional councils
beginning back in 65, 66. We appropriated
$250,000 for the 24 regional councils. We also, in
1967, created a law that said that the governor was
chief planning officer of the state. Those are
broad general comments. The law was about a
one-page law. It said the governor could create
interagency planning councils, which meant that
they were agency heads. state government agency
heads, the governor could form these councils to
work on issues. We had back in the, I guess the
primary time that I recall, we had about five or six
that were functionally broken down like natural
resources, human services, and so forth. But this
is as close to a cabinet form of government that we
have. It's where the governor can form a council
with agency heads to work on issues and problems.
It was, I think, a breakthrough in Texas because,
again, we just hadn't had any state-level
planning laws. And it was an approach where the
governor could actually call these guys together
and work on issues. I wanted to bring out to you that
I don't know if it's typical or not, but in my
experience, I think it's fairly typical. The
federal government tends to make states do what
they ought to do. You know, being a states' rights
kind of a guy that I am, I have to really choke on
those words. But many times we find that the
federal government makes us do things that we
should do. Planning is one of those areas. 701
planning, in fact, was the primary reason that we
created a planning shop in the governor's office.
It provided a basic planning pot of money to hire
planners. And of course, that's waned. I think the
last year that states got 701 planning money was
about 78 or 79. But just on your list, we also had
quite a bit of planning funds in the
transportation area. The Department of
Transportation funded fairly substantial
planning shops in both the state level as well as
regional and local levels. Then the old HEW,
Health Education Welfare, back in the, I guess
through about maybe mid-70s, was a major federal
agency that funded everything from health
planning to family planning to different kinds of
issues. I really think any time you're looking at
state-level planning in Texas or any other state,
you've got to recognize that the federal
government played a fairly major role. What I'd
like to do is walk through the governor's role in
all of this. And I will throw in a few words,
I guess, of really how good these guys were. I'm a
little bit uncomfortable with Bob's Rick Carter
here, but I'll throw some in, and then we can cut it
off, and I can tell you really what I think. John
Conley was, of course, a Democrat in those days,
was a strong governor, had a lot of charisma, a lot
of energy. He had a governor's staff in those early
days of, you know, I think he had one to maybe five
max program type staff. We have probably 150 now,
just to give you a feel. And we're small now
compared to what we used to be. But Connolly had, I
mean, there just wasn't much in the governor's
office. They had a scheduler, and they had a few
people like what we'd call personal staff, but
nothing in the program area. Back in those days,
Terrell Blodgett was the governor's executive
assistant, and he was kind of a program staffer. He
was really more of a personal aide. A guy named Jim
Ray, who's still around Texas, was the first
planning director in the governor's office, and
he was under John Connolly. Back at that day, they
were just beginning to do planning. They were, in
fact, the first planning grant that they got under
Connolly in terms of federal planning money was
the health plan. They were able to get a grant. It's
funny that we that the first planning grant that we
get in the state was health planning, which has
always been kind of a side issue. But it was at least
a couple of years during the health planning
funding days that we finally got the 701 plan. But
under Connolly, I consider those days the
beginning years. The laws were passed relative to
regional planning and state chief planning
officer, governor laws. But there was a very small
staff. They began at that time creating regional
planning councils, as I mentioned earlier. When I
say the governor's staff, they'd literally go out
and meet with city and county governments, and
they'd start explaining to them how they could
form a regional planning body, what the body ought
to do. And they did what I call missionary work in
the planning, trying to get some of the stuff done.
This was done by a very small staff. As Jim Ray
continued, he probably had no more than five
planners on board at that point. About that time,
Preston Smith came into office, 1969. Preston, to
me, was one of the better governors. And let me
define a better governor, I guess a better
governor to me is a chief type leader that can
select top staff that gives them their head and
allows them to be innovative, creative, that will
listen to the staff, you know, a lot, you know,
obviously, the decision makers going to make the
decisions. But as a The planning director ought to
feel very comfortable with recommending
anything to the governor, giving him the pros and
the cons to the political action or political
ramifications, as well as the positives and
negatives. To me, the Preston Smith days, I think,
were almost the Camelot years in planning. Dan
Petty was the director during most of that time.
And Ed Grisham was a guy that finished up the last
couple of years. And this was the years. And I
wanted to point out that we had, I guess,
Goldsboro, Texas probably was one of the primary
reasons, Bob, that our little shop got national
acclaim. Goldsboro, Texas really put the state
planning office in Texas on the map. We had two
phases, phase one, phase two. Then we had phase
three. That was the budget that, at that time, we
were still struggling over how you deal with
planning and how you deal with financing
planning. And we've still been struggling over
that ever since. But at that time, they said, you
know, really, if you do proper planning, it ought
to play into the budget. And the budget and the
planning ought to be kind of together. Well, this
year, we produced a program-type budget where the
goals for Texas and the budget document were
actually kind of merged, where we do have in the
budget. Let me skip that. We do have a budget to
where they actually break it down functionally.
Most of the state budgets have always been agency
by agency. And this is the first where they broke it
down functionally, like education, general
government, health, human resources, natural
resources. And it was the primary, like, ten
functions. You start talking about planning,
ten, I don't know if ten's a good round number or
not, but that's kind of the, if you'll break it down
any time, you'll come up with a round ten. This was a
good piece of work, and a work that I think really
did put us on the map. It actually got into talking
about what an objective was, what a goal was. Not
only two year, five year, 10 year goals, but it had a
little section in front of the Goals for Texas book
that actually explained that stuff. And nothing
that I ever knew had ever gotten to that point of
explaining what planning was. And so I really
still tout it as being a very important piece of
work. Leon, as I understand it, that was the result
of a compilation of inputs from the regional
councils of government. Yes. Let me just, for fun,
pass around, if y'all will, about half of you.
The goals program that was done, I mentioned the
creation of regional councils. Before we created
regional councils, We created the article 1011M
that I mentioned earlier back in 1965. It said that
the state would be divided up by the governor and
that there would be regional councils formed in
each of the areas. So if you look, the dark heavy
line divides up each of the 24 regions. And as Bob
pointed out, the phase one program was to go out so
to speak, to the people, trying to get out to the
folk. What do you think about it? What do you think
the goals for the state really are? And they used
the regional councils. By that time, there were
24. And I remember as a student in the planning
school, I went over to Brazos Valley Development
Council. And the governor's staff came down. And
they were talking about the goals program and
trying to create goals. And I sat through some of
the committee meetings where they were
formulating goals. And it was kind of a neat
experience. But this
program is still one of the highlights of my time.
Let me just mention Bob's book here. This is one
that I didn't bring with me. Another piece of work
that was done during the Preston Smith day was the
Urban Development Commission. At that time, we
were really trying to look at urban problems,
urban issues. We were getting to have a congestion
or highway transportation problems. And Mayor
Vandergriff out of Arlington was the the
chairman, very impressive guy, very forward
thinking guy. If you look down some of the
commissioners, there were really some
impressive folks on this. And it was a a real
credible piece of work. I don't know if you've ever
shown this to them, but this is Bob's copy. And I
think if you'll look at some of the issues that were
laid out in this book, this was just remembering
this was done in 1970. So we're 18 years. But a lot of
the issues laid out here, if we had really worked on
the issues as we should have and could have, we
would have been in much better shape. Also, Bob had
a couple of other things that you can corner him on
if you ever need to get into this. There were some
pieces of work, land use planning work done.
Again, this was HUD funded, 701 Housing and Urban
Development funded. Some very forward thinking
work done. This was a piece of work done at the very
end of the Connolly administration, talking
about model cities, if you look back over some of
the history of urban problems and urban issues,
Model Cities was an effort to try to deal with that.
I saw a smile back in the back. Do you know about
Model Cities? Were you ever involved in it, or no?
He wrote an excellent paper on Model Cities. On
Model Cities? I don't know how to assess whether it
was any good or not. John Shanahan, that was
probably the first student going through this
department, He was working on his Ph.D. when I was
here. I don't know how he was doing that because he
was working, too. I don't know. He was probably
illegal. Illegal. But anyway, John Chanahan was
up in the governor's office of state-local
relations at that time and was working on model
cities back in those days. I still see John. He's a
consultant out of Houston, I believe. Making
megabucks. He's gone into insurance now. Oh, is
he? Maybe. That's why he's making megabucks.
Insuring cellbooks. I really think those, again,
Preston Smith days, great. Let me try to move into
the Doff Briscoe era. Governor Briscoe was a
wealthy landowner, one of the largest single
landowners in the state of Texas. He owns much of
South Texas. So when you saw the land use documents
that you were looking at, this was actually done in
Preston Smith days. But some of this work, I don't
know if this one was the one or not, but some of this
work was actually not distributed until Dolph
Briscoe came into office. And I remember it being
held up for four to six months. And even people
commenting on maybe Had to sue him or something to
get this stuff up. He was not going to literally
distribute this land use planning stuff because
it was a communist plot kind of stuff. He really
hated land use planning. The whole concept and
thought of any kind of regulation on landowners or
limitation of what one can do. Yeah, I had trouble
getting these. for that reason. He probably
really wouldn't want to give you one. No,
particularly. But, you know, in your career of
planning, it's a little philosophical, but
wherever you wind up, be it a city, county, or
state, or federal government, you'll find at
times you've got to do something, even if you're in
an office that's not willing to do something. I
found through my career that there are times when I
was hell-bent on getting something done, and the
governor just didn't think it was the right thing
to do. As a staff, sometimes your integrity and
other things just tell you you've got to do
something. This piece of work was done in 1978.
Even though Doc Briscoe hated land use planning,
we were able to get this document out. We continued
to tell him it was no big deal. a very limited
effort, no problems, and we wound up, we didn't
give you that one either. This is a document,
though, that I still think, by 78, is a fairly
credible piece of work in terms of just trying to
recap where the state was at that time and trying to
make some projections. Doc Briscoe, let me just
try to say a little bit more about Doc. I think the
only thing that I can say really strong about Doc
was that he did allow us to do the interagency
planning council thing that I mentioned earlier,
where you have like the Parks and Wildlife
Department, agency head, water resources, air
control board, all of those state agencies
sitting around the table like we are here talking
about what our problems are. Briscoe allowed that
to happen. Briscoe was not one of the take charge
kind of governors, so he's not the type guy that
would sit with those agency heads. But we wound up
having a planning director that felt confident
enough to do that and demand certain things. So
James M. Rose was the planning director for the
first three years. And he was an extremely
confident type guy. And I found out later on that he
used a lot of the governor's name. to get things
done that the governor never would have actually
let us do. Was he from Corpus Christi? No, he's from
Austin. From Austin. From the Austin area. Let me
just say that back in 1976, I mentioned the
planning and budget struggle. After James M. Rose
left us to go be the water czar for the state of
Texas, Dickie Travis became the director of our
combined budget and planning office. Again, we
were all struggling over how to deal with the
budget functions and the planning functions. So
we said, OK, we'll solve this. We'll just combine
them. Seemed like a good idea at the time. But I'm
here to tell you, I don't know if you'll ever have an
opportunity to deal with that in your career. But
any time you've got the budget and planning
functions combined, I guarantee you the budget's
going to outweigh, overpower. And again, if you
had just the right kind of director and
leadership, you could make it work. But it's been
my experience that the importance, the continued
prodding about budget work, when you're having
budget and planning people work at either What we
were trying to do is merge where the expert on
transportation was the policy planner and was
also the budget analyst for the governor's
office. And it was just very difficult for that
kind of thing to happen. Philosophically, it
should. It should be able to work. But I never found
it to work very well. Bill Clements came into
office in 79. He was the first Republican in 100
years since Reconstruction. Everybody was
surprised. Old John Hill was, most of you are not
Texas, you don't know about these things, but John
Hill was the Democratic nominee and was already
over with the rulers, sizing up the office spaces
and begun trying to figure out where the pictures
should be hung. And here old Bill Clements came up
and won. It took us for at least six months to try to
get our bearings, because there really weren't
that many Republicans in Texas, and there weren't
that many Republicans that would do governor's
office kind of work. $20,000 to $30,000 a year when
most of the Republicans were millionaires. It
just didn't work. So we all were struggling around
trying to figure out how to get the job done. A guy
named Paul Rotenberry, who had been an IBM
executive, became our budget and planning
director. And his main claim to fame was MBO,
management by objectives, and implementing all
kinds of management kinds of techniques. This was
kind of a new thing to me because when I started
thinking about planning, my education here was a
process where you gather facts and analyze them,
synthesize them, come up with goals and
objectives. Really using management by
objectives, it's really a planning process. It
was, you know, developing objectives, trying to
lay out where you're going to be by certain times.
So that all of that seemed to be very interrelated.
I really think that, you know, if you look at
anything that the Clements first term did, it was
to try to reshape government to actually begin
thinking about where they're going. I think that
would be a little checkoff mark I would give
Clements for his first term. His other major piece
was a Texas 2000 commission that was another blue
ribbon kind of a commission similar to the Urban
Development Commission I mentioned earlier. It
was a forward-thinking commission focused
primarily on the economic of the future, trying to
project the population, the future budget
revenue pictures, and how they merge. It was at
that time in the, oh, about 80, along 80 and 81 was
our first major time of struggling over the oil
revenue dropping dramatically. So we wound up
really having a struggle with what we're going to
do in the future. Were consultants used by the
state government on that? Consultants? This was
staffed by Clement's type deal, where his whole
deal is a public-private partnership stuff where
you steal staff. This staff was, you know, the
director was named Vic Arnold of this particular
commission. He was stolen from the University of
Texas. They had to loan him. He was a great, he was a
good guy. He had been from one of the northern
states, had been a planning director. But he was
staff director for this. And then we stole about
six or eight key staff out of state government,
some of the real top people. And that's
uncharacteristic. But by robbing, stealing, and
conniving, we were able to produce. This was one
report, and they produced another one about twice
as thick. on more detailed information about the
Texas 2000. Again, they started, you know,
strategic planning seemed to be a term talked
about during these days. Vic was real big on
strategic planning. Not comprehensive
planning, but strategic planning. Because
oftentimes you have to really struggle over what
folks really mean by those terms. Let me talk.
briefly about Mark White. I was talking to Bob
before I came in here, and I've got sour grapes a
little bit over this, but I'll share it with you.
Mark White had the image. He was a young, for terms
of our governors, he's a young guy, progressive.
He wound up hiring the planning director was Ed
Grisham, who or really that's not his title, but
something close to that, who had been the director
back in the Preston Smith days. So I knew that Ed
knew how to shake and move and get things done. So
Hardin Wiedemann came, who was a business-type
man out of Dallas. But he was like a Harvard
graduate, very sharp guy. A lot of expectations
were raised. I thought, man, we're going to get
some good stuff done. And really we found, as the
administration wore on, that Mark White was not
supportive of planning, that the initial things
that occurred were just, you know, he was taking
advice early on to hire this Ed Grisham, and he was
not comfortable with it. Within six months, they
completely reorganized, and anything with the
title planning was just kind of shoved aside, and
it was strictly, quote, I don't want to plan, I just
want to get things done. and I think was a demise of
that particular governor. Just a lot of neat
things that we could have done with a little
foresight and then into the action. Bill Clements
beat him. Very close election. But again, I think a
lot of it was because Mark White didn't have the
management skills to really run an office. Again,
that goes back to being able to pick good people and
get the heck out of the way and be at the right place
at the right time in terms of providing the
leadership. I'm speaking like a staff guy, but
that's the way I feel about it. Probably has
something to do with the campaign, if I may say.
Campaign and true, and it never ended really. Lack
of research. Yeah, yeah. Let me just say, Bill
Clements, let me talk briefly about that and then
move into the sort of the current initiatives,
which really picks up what Clements is doing now.
Bill Clements came in this time and, again, put a
former legislator, Bob Davis, over the budget
planning shop. And I think, you know, I thought
over time I felt like budget has always
overpowered planning. By the time Bob Davis came
and organized it, I thought they were going to drop
planning out of the name. But they decided to leave
it. And there was just not much planning done. I
transferred to a new office in the governor's
office called the Governor's Office of State
Affairs. It's about a six to seven person policy
staff. And it's been a real experience for me over
the last,
You know, it's been a period of completely erasing
a lot of the stuff that I had done. I've been
involved with federal grants, been involved with
regional council and regional planning for
years. All of that stuff now is still up in budget
planning. But I'm down in a policy development
staff now, which is completely a different kind of
shop. And I can talk about it more if you're
interested. But... Bob Davis completely erased
planning. It's strictly a budget staff up there.
And I'm hopeful that things will change. Bob Davis
just resigned this last week. And I'm hopeful that
a new director might provide a little innovation
and a new shape there. Are you recruiting? Well,
are you interested?
Bob. Bob would not be accepted in a Republican
administration. You can take that, too. Let me
talk with you now about the Department of
Commerce, because I think if you had to be fair
about the Clements administration now, I don't
think the planning is really coming out of the
budget and planning shop. I think our policies
development staff is really more of a planning
shop than the budget planning shop. But I'd have to
point to the new Department of Commerce. This was a
brainchild of Bill Clements. In his previous
administration, he decided that we needed to
gather together all the economic development
kinds of functions in state government and merge
them under one agency. The tourist industry shot
it out of the water because the tourist
development has a real strong lobbyist group all
over the state. Tourism tends to be a publicity
type folk. And so they can really mobilize their
anti-program. And so it didn't work last term, but
Bill Clements this time decided he was going to do
it. They got Gib Lewis, the speaker, to support him
and Hobby. And so they finally passed a piece of
legislation this last session creating this new
Department of Commerce. What's interesting
about this whole shop, I mean, you've got the
finance over here. That's the Community
Development Block Grant. As you can tell, some of
it's kind of faded out. But you've got a lot of the
Job Training Partnership Act under here,
tourism, business development, But up in the
right hand upper corner, research and planning,
they actually have a planning shop, a research and
planning shop. And we'll talk a little bit more
about that. But this office is a brand new office.
We have a lot of one of those deals and a lot of
expectations. We hope that a lot of good things
will come from this. Now they've got considerable
more financing than we've ever had before. And we
feel like this is going to be a real positive move
for us. Who did you say the executive director was?
This one? Bill Lauterbach, who is a longtime
friend of Clements. And the original idea of the
head of that agency was supposed to be a corporate
exec. but they were looking at a salary of about
$70,000, and any kind of low-level corporate exec
would be looking at a minimum of $150,000. So it's
really difficult. You know how professors and
corporate execs, about $150,000.
But let me talk about this
Strategic Economic Policy Commission.
And I think in terms of planning the next three
years, we're going to really need, as students,
I'm sure you're not going to be around in the next
three years, but whatever job you wind up landing
in, you'll need to be watching this commission
because I really think this is the grandson of the
Texas 2000 Commission. That's what everybody
said. What happened to the Texas 2000 Commission?
We've got to have somebody looking ahead.
planning for the future. Believe it or not, the
legislation finally called on this commission to
be formed. The governor is chairman.
The lieutenant governor and speaker are on that
commission. The governor's appointees are on
there, as well as
page two. There's an agenda that got stuck in the
middle here. But on page two, you'll show
appointees. You'll see the speaker and
lieutenant governor has appointees.
So it's a broad-based kind of a group. It's a
bipartisan group. Hopefully, we'll keep the
politics out of it. It will never happen. I mean,
politics are in everything. But this is a very
bipartisan group. This little packet, I won't...
Won't belabor you with it, but it does lay out the
mission of the commission, the mandates. It lays
out sort of a general schedule of activities, kind
of the paper flow process, shows how they plan to
get their work done, scheduling public hearings
in that, believe it or not, in that process.
So it's something that you just need to look
through. It may be of interest to you in some of your
projects. I have high hopes that this group may be
our real key for this next couple of years.
In talking about state planning, just got to say
that the way we're structured in Texas, we have
over 300 state agencies. just no way that we could
ever have a centralized planning function where,
be it the governor or be it another single state
agency, to do all the planning for all the
agencies. So philosophically, if we can
structure a planning function within each state
government, develop it to the best possible
planning function that we can do, and then there is
a link-up of all that planning function where
everybody knows what's going on and that those
planning activities are cast in kind of a complete
package. All the little functional single agency
plans need to somehow be drawn together, sort of
like the goals for Texas. That's what the phase two
was. It was each state agency contributed to a
overall package. But we still need the individual
agency planning efforts. Each of our, this is the
second to last point, each state agency,
somewhere hidden down in the bowels of their state
laws, it says that they're supposed to do some kind
of planning activity. It's not emphasized, and as
I told Bob coming in here, there are a lot of laws on
the books that aren't implemented. So each of the
agencies do do have individual little silent laws
down in their statutory base. This old piece of
work in 73 would point out all those little secret
laws. But it probably needs to be updated since
it's probably 13 years old. Bob, that might be a
good project for you.
No comment. OK, now the last thing that I want to
just throw at you, and then I want to hear from you.
A major part of the planning work that's done,
probably fairly sketchy but still done, is the use
of task forces. And I don't know. I mean, this is not
my recap of those. But there are a number of them
that Governor Clements has formed through
executive order. And then the legislature
directed that certain committees, task forces be
formed. So you'll follow as you flip through.
You've got to be really innovative to be able to
read this. It's stapled in the wrong corner. But
we've got a hog of a machine that staples it where it
wants to staple it. And that's it. So you take it or
leave it. But you'll flip. through, you can see
everything from kind of an accounting. The top one
we had was it was accounting auditing, financial
group trying to every state agency has a different
accounting system and a different procedure of
keeping track of their expenditure. They do have
to fit a mold a little bit of the comptroller. But if
you'll look at the Yes. His Maggie. I wanted to
point out that under water resources, there's no
chairman, but they do have staff. And Ralph Baker
was my graduate assistant when he was in the
department here. Ralph is now in budget planning
and is on a number of these task forces, as you flip
through here. And would be a good contact on
natural resource issues. He was hired away from
the water. Resources Department. From Cthulhu.
Cthulhu. Country boy. But...
Jay Stanford, I see, is chairman of State
Emergency Communications. Yeah, Jay Stanford is
the director of the Texas Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations. Been there for a
number of years. But this is just to kind of give you
a feel that a lot of the... planning, policy
development kinds of activities come from a task
force arrangement. I'd say most of those would be
considered a short-term, four to six months, go
in, rattle around, get as much facts as you can,
determine what the problems are, and make a
recommendation. Most of these will make a
recommendation concerning how to fix something
through legislation. So we will see a piece of
legislation probably coming out of each of the
task forces. Let me just kind of hear from you a
minute or what interests you. Where are most of you
going to go to work when you finish here?
Are you Austin?
Are most of you finishing up in May?
No? Some months.
If you had your model job right now, would you be
looking for a city planner job? Show of hands. Show
of hands. Maybe not, maybe so. How about county?
Anybody involved in county? There's a Joe
Gieselman still in Travis County. in Austin that
was out of our program and has gone through
reorganization. I'm not sure exactly how that's
going to work out. He was in charge of
transportation planning. But I think they've
just recently reshaped it. He may be over some more
stuff other than transportation now. Are most of
you going to be looking at a functional planning
like transportation or health? Or most of you
looking for a generalist type job? Yes.
What's your favorite? I mean, just looking at your
job, what are you looking for? Do you know yet?
They're looking for money. They're not looking
for what I'm looking for. What are you looking for?
A reservation plan.
Well, let me just Let me just say something. I think
most of you going through this curriculum would be
looking for a city or a local government job,
probably for a number of reasons. And I'll hit a
couple. Number one, city jobs tend to be paid
better. I think if you look at a city manager,
deputy, something empty up, planning or
whatever, those jobs at the top level very high
compared to the state. I'm not sure that's true
when you get down into the mid-management kind of
stuff, but I've been really surprised at some of
the city salary levels. It's been good. But I
think, too, I think this department really
teaches the city. It's easy to send you over to the
city council here in Bryan College Station and
understand how government works there. And I just
would make a pitch to you that state government may
not be easy to get jobs or whatever, but I would
really encourage you to look at it. I didn't think
state was where I was going to go. I wound up looking
for jobs and just, you know.